Add a simple sample of the retry function (#6823)
Particular/docs.particular.net: samples/servicecontrol/retry-messages/sample.md

Click on the failure symbol to see the datails. You can inspect the message headers as well as the payload.

![service-pulse-error-details](service-pulse-error-details.png)

Now click `Request retry` to initiate the message retry process i.e. sending the message back to the receiver's input queue for reprocessing.

![service-pulse-retry-in-progress](service-pulse-retry-in-progress.png)

Once the process is completed, go back to the Receiver console window.

![service-pulse-retry-completed](service-pulse-retry-completed.png)

### Receiver

You can now notice that the message has been successfully processed.

```cmd
Exception details:
        Message type: SimpleMessage
        Handler type: SimpleMessageHandler
        Handler start time: 2024-09-12 07:41:32:540082 Z
        Handler failure time: 2024-09-12 07:41:32:573794 Z
        Handler canceled: False
        Message ID: b287b065-1fb1-4fb1-8b71-b1e9007ec40d
        Transport message ID: 75fe4ddd-ffde-49b1-a1dc-37c9ab8c40c6
        Pipeline canceled: False
t
Fault mode disabled
2024-09-12 09:44:43.779 INFO  Received message.
2024-09-12 09:44:43.781 INFO  Successfully processed message.
```

## Code walk-through

> For simplicity, both [the immediate](/nservicebus/recoverability/index.md#immediate-retries) and [the delayed retries](/nservicebus/recoverability/index.md#delayed-retries) are disabled in the sample. As a result, messages are moved to the error queue after a single failed processing attempt:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For simplicity, both [the immediate](/nservicebus/recoverability/#immediate-retries) and [the delayed retries](/nservicebus/recoverability/#delayed-retries) are disabled in the sample. As a result, messages are moved to the error queue after a single failed processing attempt:
```

---
title: Retry failed messages using ServicePulse
summary: A sample showing how to retry failed messages
component: Core
reviewed: 2024-09-03
---

This sample shows how to retry a failed message. The sample uses the [Learning Transport](/transports/learning/) and a portable version of the Particular Service Platform tools. Installing ServiceControl is **not** required.

> include: platformlauncher-windows-required

Author: I must admit I copied it from the repair message sample. I guess the include did not age well.

> include: platformlauncher-windows-required

Reviewer: I'm wondering if instead of adding the include we could add a note like this:

> This sample includes a portable version of the Particular Service Platform tools. These tools are available only in Windows environments.

![service-pulse-dash-error](service-pulse-dash-error.png)

Click on the failure symbol to see the datails. You can inspect the message headers as well as the payload.

![service-pulse-error-details](service-pulse-error-details.png)

Now click `Request retry` to initiate the message retry process.

![service-pulse-retry-in-progress](service-pulse-retry-in-progress.png)

Once the process is completed, go back to the Receiver console window.

![service-pulse-retry-completed](service-pulse-retry-completed.png)

### Receiver

You can now notice that the message has been successfully processed.

```cmd
Exception details:
        Message type: SimpleMessage
        Handler type: SimpleMessageHandler
        Handler start time: 2024-09-12 07:41:32:540082 Z
        Handler failure time: 2024-09-12 07:41:32:573794 Z
        Handler canceled: False
        Message ID: b287b065-1fb1-4fb1-8b71-b1e9007ec40d
        Transport message ID: 75fe4ddd-ffde-49b1-a1dc-37c9ab8c40c6
        Pipeline canceled: False
t
Fault mode disabled
2024-09-12 09:44:43.779 INFO  Received message.
2024-09-12 09:44:43.781 INFO  Successfully processed message.
```

## Code walk-through

> Retries are disabled in the sample for simplicity; messages are immediately moved to the error queue after a processing failure:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For simplicity, both [the immediate](/nservicebus/recoverability/index.md#immediate-retries) and [the delayed retries](/nservicebus/recoverability/index.md#delayed-retries) are disabled in the sample. As a result, messages are moved to the error queue after a single failed processing attempt:
```

snippet: DisableRetries

> This endpoint processes messages of type `SimpleMessage`. Depending on the value of the `FaultMode` property, the message processing might end with an exception.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The receiver's failure mode is controlled by the `FaultMode` property. When `true` processing of `SimpleMessage` messages ends with an exception.
```

---
title: Retry failed messages using ServicePulse
summary: A sample showing how to retry failed messages
component: Core
reviewed: 2024-09-03
---

This sample shows how to retry a failed message. The sample uses the [Learning Transport](/transports/learning/) and a portable version of the Particular Service Platform tools. Installing ServiceControl is **not** required.

include: platformlauncher-windows-required

downloadbutton

## Running the project

Running the project will result in 3 console windows. Wait a moment until the ServicePulse window opens in the browser.

> ![service-pulse-fresh](service-pulse-fresh.png)

Reviewer 2: Images of ServicePulse are much to wide.

Author: Replaced.

### Sender

The sender is a program that uses NServiceBus to send simple test messages.

![send-a-message](send-a-message.png)

Press <kbd>Enter</kbd> in the Sender console window to send one.

### Receiver

The receiver is a program that uses NServiceBus to read messages off a queue and process them. It has a fault simulation mode that is enabled by default. Because of that, the message that has just been sent fails to be processed.

> ![receiver-error](receiver-error.png)

Reviewer 2: I don't think we should use screenshots from consoles as these are text. Wouldn't it be better to just paste the console text here? Like:

```
Mode                 LastWriteTime         Length Name
----                 -------------         ------ ----
d----          28/08/2024    14:20                coverage
d----          05/09/2024    12:09                node_modules
d----          27/08/2024    14:56                public
d----          27/08/2024    14:56                src
d----          27/08/2024    14:56                test
-a---          27/08/2024    14:56             27 .eslintignore
-a---          27/08/2024    14:56           1071 .eslintrc.cjs
-a---          27/08/2024    14:56            347 .gitignore
-a---          27/08/2024    14:56              8 .prettierignore
-a---          27/08/2024    14:56            257 .prettierrc.json
-a---          27/08/2024    14:56            291 env.d.ts
-a---          27/08/2024    14:56            461 index.html
-a---          28/08/2024    12:39         328391 package-lock.json
-a---          27/08/2024    14:56           2422 package.json
-a---          27/08/2024    14:56            595 tsconfig.app.json
-a---          05/09/2024    12:32         169631 tsconfig.app.tsbuildinfo
-a---          27/08/2024    14:56            149 tsconfig.json
-a---          27/08/2024    14:56            280 tsconfig.node.json
-a---          27/08/2024    14:56           2490 vite.config.ts
-a---          27/08/2024    14:56            878 vitest.config.ts

  ramon  S:    src  Frontend [  trial-license-bar ≡  ~3 ] cd,,cd
ParserError:
Line |
   1 |  cd,,cd
     |    ~
     | Missing argument in parameter list.
  ramon  S:    src  Frontend [  trial-license-bar ≡  ~3 ]
  ramon  S:    src  Frontend [  trial-license-bar ≡  ~3 ] cd..
  ramon  S:  ServicePulse  src [  trial-license-bar ≡  ~3 ] cd..
  ramon  S:  ServicePulse [  trial-license-bar ≡  ~3 ] code .
  ramon  S:  ServicePulse [  trial-license-bar ≡  ~3 ]
```

Better readable, crisper on UHD screens, mobile friendly, etc.
